Author,Title,Citation,PlaceofPublication,Publisher_Printer,YearOfPublications,PresumedGender,BirthCountry,Language(Original),LanguageofTranslation,Date-Travel_Begin,Date-Travel_End,Calendar-Conversion-Dates,Century,DecadeMaterialCovers,Latitude,Longitude,PlaceDescribed,Place-ModernName,Country,Region,Continent,TranscriptionofDescription,Pages,Graphic,Page_Graphic,Repository,URI,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 15-7.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833-01,,19th century,1830s,40.7414,-73.9869,New York City,"New York City, New York",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"New York is the greatest commercial city of the United States. It possesses many advantages; its geographical position, near the centre of the Atlantic States; its port, open at all seasons of the year; its situation, at the debouchure of the mighty Hudson, which affords an easy navigation for sloops for one hundred and sixty miles. The Erie and Champlain canals open a communication with the northern and western States, by which they are supplied with merchandise, and their surplus produce is exported. The East River opens a channel for intercourse with New England, where extensive manufactories are established. From the south it receives the produce of Virginia, the Carolinas, Florida, and Georgia. The establishment of regular packet-ships to England and France brings the earliest intelligence of the markets in those countries. The extensive commerce with almost every port of Europe, Asia, and America. From the continual intercourse with Europe and the interior of the United States, the price of stocks at New York has a great influence on the monied transactions of the continent. Ten or twenty thousand strangers are resident in the city during most seasons of the year. The situation of New York is agreeable; on the east and west bounded by the Hudson and East rivers, and by a magnificent bay on the south. It covers an extent of ground three miles long from north to south, and nearly one mile wide. The city is regularly built. Near the centre is the Broadway, a street nearly three miles long, and eighty feet wide. The other avenues are straight, cross each other at right angles, and slope from Broadway to the rivers on either side. The side walks are paved with gneiss and mica slate. The houses are built of small red bricks, neatly painted, a custom derived from the first Dutch inhabitants. In the suburbs there are many houses built of wood; these are occasionally burnt or pulled down, to make room for more substantial edifices. Sometimes these wooden houses are moved on rollers to a greater distance from the centre of the city, and it is not unfrequent to meet them on their passage. Some houses in New York are built of white marble; they remind the traveller of the palaces in the commercial cities of Italy. This species of limestone is abundant near the city, and will be generally introduced. A contrast is exhibited in some houses built by the Dutch settlers with bricks brought from Holland, with high, sharp roofs; they are preserved on account of their antiquity. The modern houses have green lattices to the windows, and the rooms on the first floor communicate by folding doors.",15-7,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 37-8.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833-01,,19th century,1830s,40.679,-73.9433,Brooklyn,"Brooklyn, New York",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"On the opposite shore of East River is the town of Brooklyn, which partakes of the general prosperity of New York. New streets are opened, houses and stores built, and great activity displayed. Near the water's edge are immense stores, containing many thousand barrels of tar, resin, and turpentine, which the laws of the state do not allow to be deposited in the city. In Brooklyn may be seen some Dutch houses, fronted with shingles. On heights surrounding the town are some remains of fortifications constructed by the American army, during the revolutionary war. A circular earthen fort of that period remains in a commanding position, overlooking the marshy ground in front. On the opposite range of hills the battle took place, in 1776; and the Americans, being defeated, had to retreat to their fortified lines. By the mill, further to the south, is a narrow bridge, where General Sullivan and Lord Stirling were taken prisoners.",37-8,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 53-5.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833-01,,19th century,1830s,42.6532,-73.7563,Albany,"Albany, New York",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Albany , the capital of the state, is one hundred and fifty miles from New York. It is advantageously situated for commerce, at the head of sloop navigation, and at the termination of the Erie and Champlain canals. State Street is a fine broad avenue in the centre of the city, with the Capitol, on the brow of the hill, at one extremity. The other is blocked up with houses, or it would afford a fine view over the river and the surrounding country. Albany exhibits marks of its Dutch founders. Many houses are built of small bricks, with their gable ends to the street. Some have been described in the history of Irving. Van Tromp Street is named after the celebrated Dutch Admiral. On the east bank of the river, one mile south of the city, is a mansion, erected forty years since, with loop holes and narrow windows, that it might, in case of necessity, be defended against the Indians. The rapid advance of civilization may be noticed by this fact. It shews, at that recent period, it was necessary to guard against their incursions. At that time the sloops were usually a fortnight in sailing to New York, and, to convey the passengers on shore, had a large tree hollowed out into a canoe. There are several cascades within a few miles of the city; to these I was accompanied by my friend Dr. J—. The rapids of Norman Kill are worthy a visit. A small river dashes over ledges of rock, and the stream is confined by precipitous banks covered with forest trees. To form a harbor for the immense number of canal boats which arrive at Albany, a pier has been constructed four thousand feet long, and fifty feet wide. It is made of piles driven into the bed of the river, and filled with earth. Warehouses are built on the top of the pier. When the canals are open, this harbor presents a busy scene; hundreds of boats are collected, bringing the various productions of the West and North; iron, timber, and marble, from the territory near Lake Champlain; flour, wheat, maize, flax-seed, gypsum, and the riches of the West. Emigrants come here with their families to take a passage in boats for the western country. The capitol is advantageously situated on the summit of the hill, and is built of red sandstone. It is one hundred and fifteen feet long, ninety feet deep, and fifty feet high, with a portico in front.",53-5,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 70-2.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833-01,,19th century,1830s,42.7281,-73.6919,Troy,"Troy, New York",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Troy is not a city of ancient date. The ground was owned by a family who, for many years, refused to sell their land. The inhabitants have rapidly increased. At Mr.—'s, formerly a senator in congress, I had the pleasure of seeing a fine collection of minerals, arranged with much taste. At Troy there is a celebrated school for ladies, to which many respectable families send their daughters to be educated. Troy has a Mount Olympus and a Mount Ida in its vicinity. An elevated plateau on the east is worth visiting by every traveller;—the view is sublime. At a distance of several miles, the waters of the Mohawk may be seen, as they fall over the rock of the Cohoes; as the rays of the morning sun shine on the cascade, it seems like molten silver. No other similar view in America. At Troy may be perceived the difference that is made in any country by the pursuit of commerce or agriculture. Formerly on this spot was a solitary farm-house, which contained ten individuals. They owned a canoe, cut out of a tree, in which they sometimes ventured to cross the magnificent Hudson. Now you see a thousand houses, containing seven thousand inhabitants, engaged in commerce. The Hudson is covered with sloops displaying their white sails. On the summit of the hill, half concealed by a wood, is the cemetery of the Vanderhuydens, who, for a century, possessed this land. They lived and flourished on their farms, and their tombs number seven or eight. I was at Troy in winter, and the river was covered with ice. Near the shore large masses were broken, and piled on each other by the tide. The ferries were useless, and all who possessed sleighs took advantage of the season to travel on the river. Sometimes on the breaking up of the ice accidents occur, and the traveller, with his sleigh and horse, suddenly disappears under the ice. In winter the stage-coaches are placed on sleighs, and thus travel with much expedition.",70-2,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 74-6.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833-01,,19th century,1830s,39.9605,-75.1579,Philadelphia,"Philadelphia, Pennsylvania",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Philadelphia is built on a point of land near the junction of the rivers Schuylkill and Delaware. The streets are in right lines, and intersect each other at right angles. Market Street, a fine broad avenue, extends two miles between the rivers. Squares are left open in various parts, and are planted with trees; they afford a fine shade and a public walk. By a particular mode of naming the streets, a stranger easily finds his way to any part. The whole space between the rivers has been set out for streets and avenues, but the principal buildings are near the Delaware: there the ships unload, and it is the chief mart for business. The ground on which the city stands is nearly level, and the regularity with which it is built gives an air of uniformity displeasing to a stranger....The commerce of Philadelphia was formerly extensive, and the merchants had correspondents in all quarters of the world. For many years after the War of Independence it was the greatest commercial port in America. It has since declined, owing to the superior local advantages of New York. The Delaware is sometimes closed with ice during the winter months, and the port is one hundred miles from the sea, by an intricate navigation. The trade to the interior is considerable. There are some manufacturing establishments in Philadelphia, and several thousand looms are employed. At Kensington and Southwark there are extensive yards for ship-building. One line of packet-ships sails between this port and Liverpool. On the Delaware, two miles from the centre of the city, is a navy yard belonging to the United States. A frigate, pierced for sixty-four guns, was on the stocks. Salt was placed in various parts of her timbers to preserve her from the dry rot.",74-6,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 100-3.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,40.6895,-75.2183,Easton,"Easton, Pennsylvania",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"I was invited to spend some time at Easton, in the interior of Pennsylvania, and had thus an opportunity of seeing that part of the country. Easton is about eighty miles from Philadelphia, at the confluence of the Lehigh and Delaware, and is surrounded by hills, from whence a series of beautiful views may be obtained. The hills attain an elevation of a thousand feet. One of them is called Mount Parnassus, and is literally covered with laurel. The others are adorned with a variety of shrubs and trees, among which are the sumach, vine, magnolia, oak, paper birch, tuliptree, maple, buttonwood, and cedar; there are also a variety of flowers...The dwellings of the farmers are small, but they vie with each other in the size of their barns; they are built three stories high, and have some resemblance to castles. The Hessians who were taken prisoners in the Revolution, and sent to this vicinity, are said to have written home to their friends that the country was strongly fortified. The land is fertile. I was much pleased with the neatness of the farms and the luxuriance of the grass. There wanted nothing but green hedges to make it like England. Large quantities of clover are sown; it grows more than two feet high, and in the season of flowering it reminded me of the lines of Campbell.",100-3,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 120-1.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,41.8249,-71.414,Providence,"Providence, Rhode Island",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Providence is one capital of the State of Rhode Island; the sessions of the Legislature are held alternately here and at Newport. It is a flourishing city, at the head of a navigable river or arm of the sea. There are several manufactories in Providence and the neighboring towns, where cotton goods are made in large quantities. In America, as in England, wherever manufactures are established, a new impulse seems to be given to human industry; houses are built and a spirit of improvement is exhibited. Cotton goods are shipped from Providence to all parts of the United States. Brown University is on a hill, overlooking the city; it has three professors and sixty students; but having no legislative patronage and being near the college at Harvard, more amply endowed, it has not increased so rapidly as was expected. On my return from Boston, I again stopped at Providence during the sessions of the Legislature. The members were farmers, mechanics or tradesmen, and few lawyers; they are paid six shillings sterling per diem. The Governor of the State has a salary of £150 sterling; an effort was made in the Legislature to reduce the amount; it was considered too large. The Governor was at the hotel where I remained; I sat by him at table, and, after some conversation, found I was conversing with the chief magistrate of eighty thousand people; thus having a higher rank than can be claimed by some princes on the continent of Europe",120-1,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 123.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,41.4902,-71.3121,Newport,"Newport, Rhode Island",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Newport was distinguished in the annals of the old French wars, from its being the general rendezvous of the fleets. The harbor is equal or superior to any other in America. The town has declined from its ancient prosperity; many houses are untenanted and seem falling to ruins, and there is apparently little business transacted. The trade formerly carried on at Newport, has been removed to Providence, which is more centrally situated. The town is surrounded by a chain of redoubts and forts, erected by the British army in the War of Independence. Some of the fortifications still remain. Fort Tammony stands on an eminence, two miles north-west of the town. It occupies a strong position and commands an extensive view. The encampment of the American army on the opposite heights, and the position of the French fleet under Count D'Estaing, were pointed out to me by a resident. But the fields are no longer occupied by contending armies—the husbandman now follows his occupation in peace. The bay is not in possession of hostile fleets— the sailor pursues without danger his path upon the wave. To the east of Newport is an ancient redoubt, with four embrasures for cannon, protected by a deep fosse.",123,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 125-8.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,42.3602,-71.0604,Boston,"Boston, Massachusetts",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Boston is situated on a promontory, joined to the main-land by a narrow peninsula, and by several bridges. It resembles Mexico in its position. Within the last sixty years there was a gate and wall across the peninsula, to keep out the Indians. When the Revolution commenced, Governor Gage gave orders for the construction of a fortified line near the same place, and the remains are still to be seen, unless lately obliterated. The ditch was wide and deep, and extended from the bay to the interior harbor, and, at high water, converted Boston into an island. Boston contains sixty thousand inhabitants, and carries on an extensive commerce with various parts of the world. The harbor is commodious, and affords anchorage for five hundred ships of war. It is defended by Fort Independence, situated on an island, provided with 200 pieces of cannon. The streets of Boston are crooked; it is said there is not one strait avenue in the whole city. The ground on which it is built is undulating, and it resembles an English town. The streets are kept much cleaner than in any other city in America. A very singular cart or truck is used for the conveyance of goods. They are made of two pieces of timber, about twenty five feet long, placed two feet and a half apart, and resting in the centre on an axle with two wheels. They are drawn by two or three horses, and form a serious impediment to passing the streets, besides being very dangerous. Many houses towards the exterior of the city are built of wood, those in the central streets are of brick; all are painted, and furnished with green blinds. It is the fashion in Boston for rich individuals to build very large houses. Some of these are built of marble; others of white granite brought from Chelmsford. Some are constructed of a dark-colored sienite, which has a very sombre appearance, and from the density of the material, these houses must be damp in winter. The pride of Boston is the Park. It occupies thirty acres of ground, the surface gently undulating, and surrounded by a wide mall, bounded by a double row of the Ulmus pendula, or American elm. Here the reviews take place, and on public occasions, which are numerous in America, it forms a fine field for display. The bridges which connect Boston with the main-land are four in number. They are constructed on piles driven into the bottom of the harbor, which varies from five to twenty feet in depth. They are open and exposed to the weather, and, in consequence, the planks are obliged to be renewed every five years. In Pennsylvania, where the bridges are protected by a roof, they last thirty years without repair, and preserve the traveller from the inclemency of the sky. One bridge is twelve hundred yards long, the others are of scarcely inferior dimensions. Within a short distance of Boston, the bridges thrown over the various creeks and bays are supposed to be ten miles in extent, if united in one line. A mound of stone, filled with earth, has been erected across the higher part of the harbor, at an expense of five hundred thousand dollars. Two large reservoirs are formed; one is kept full of water, and the other empty, by gates which allow the efflux and reflux of the tide. An immense water-power is thus created, and mills are erected on the dam which separate the two reservoirs.",125-8,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 162-3.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,42.4256,-70.9187,Nahant,"Nahant, Massachusetts",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"I was invited by some friends to go to Nahant, a place of fashionable resort, in the summer season, for the inhabitants of Boston and other parts of Massachusetts. Nahant, twelve miles north-east of Boston, is a small, rocky promontory, extending into the ocean. It is joined to the continent by a narrow peninsula, one mile long, which is overflowed at high water. Quantities of sea-weed are thrown up by the waves on the beach, and the farmers are assiduous in collecting it. At low water, the sandy beach makes a fine road for carriages; at other times, the approach is rough and unpleasant. This is of less consequence, because parties usually arrive and depart by the steam-boat. The rock affords grass sufficient to feed a few sheep, who take a journey every morning over the peninsula, and return to the main land at night.",162-3,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 180-1.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,39.2915,-76.6234,Baltimore,"Baltimore, Maryland",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Baltimore contains sixty thousand inhabitants, and is built on the river Patapsco, near its junction with the Bay of Chesapeake. At Fell's Point, the port to which foreign vessels resort, there is depth of water sufficient for the largest ships. Small sloops sail up to the town. The growth of Baltimore has been without a precedent, even in the annals of America. It is advantageously situated for commerce: the trade of the Susquehanna chiefly centres in this port, and it has a communication with the interior by excellent roads. Its position is favorable for trade with the West-India Islands and with the ports on the Spanish Main. The sharp schooners built at Baltimore make very expeditious voyages, and are well adapted to the harbors of Mexico. In the last war, the privateers from Baltimore did great injury to the commerce of England, as they almost defied pursuit. The most striking feature in the character of the inhabitants of Baltimore is their fondness for architectural display. In no city of the United States are there so many good buildings. It has been called the City of Monuments, and on every side you behold fountains, churches, columns, monuments, and public buildings, of various descriptions. Many are built in a correct style. The fountains are placed in different parts of the city. The water falls into a marble reservoir, surrounded by a railed inclosure; you descend to the fount by a few marble steps, and the arrangement is at once classical, and of great public utility. The water is conducted underground, from a distance of two miles. The Battle-Monument is a chef-d'œuvre of art, situated in a small square adjoining the main street. A figure of victory rests one hand on a reeded column, representing the fasces of the Roman consuls, but destitute of an axe. It is placed on a square plinth. The names of those who were killed in the engagement with the British troops are inscribed on various parts of the monument.",180-1,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 196-200.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,38.8932,-77.0246,"Washington, D.C.","Washington, D.C.",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Washington, the capital of the United States of America, contains four distinct towns. George town, where commercial business is transacted. Pennsylvania Avenue, near the President's house, and the offices for the departments of the Navy, Army, Treasury, and Foreign affairs. The Capitol and streets in the vicinity. The Navy-yard, surrounded by the houses of artificers. These combined near one spot would make a handsome city, but they are some distance apart. As the power and resources of the United States increase, the city will be enlarged and completed according to the original plan on a magnificent scale. Rents are high and the price of living extravagant. The Potomac flows at the distance of a mile from the Capitol; an extensive marsh intervenes; the exhalations which it produces in autumn are noxious. The senators assembled at Washington breathe an atmosphere similar to that inhaled by the ancient senators of imperial Rome...I visited the Navy yard, but there was nothing very different from establishments at other ports. The Capitol is an immense pile of building, but it was not finished on the exterior, so that I had no opportunity of judging of its general effect as a work of art. It is situated on the brow of a hill, in a commanding position. It contains the Hall of Representatives, Senate Chamber, Supreme Court, Library, Committee-rooms, 199 and apartments for the Speaker of the House and Vice-President. The first impression on entering the Hall of Representatives, is the air of magnificence which prevails. No expense has been spared to promote the convenience of the members; it has an air of luxury resembling the interior of a palace. St. Stephen's Chapel presents a stronger contrast to this Hall, than can be found in any two buildings devoted to the same object. I have not seen the Representative Halls of continental Europe, but I believe that none can vie with that of America in beauty of decoration. The interior of the hall is in the form of a semicircle. The roof is supported by twenty-two columns of breccia marble, surmounted by white marble capitals. On the floor of the Hall are seats for the members, arranged towards the outside of the semicircle, and the chair for the Speaker near the centre. Every member has an arm-chair and a separate table, furnished with a drawer. Over the Speaker's chair is a crimson canopy, surmounted by the figure of an eagle, with her wings extended. Above the base of the cornice is a statue of the Goddess of Liberty, holding in her right hand a baton, with which she points to the hall.",196-200,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 250-1.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,38.0102,-78.4526,Monticello,"Charlottesville, Virginia",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Monticello is situated upon one of the south-west mountains, and commands an extensive view. From the lofty mountaintop, you see the Rivanna pursuing its peaceful, meandering course, and again concealed from view by the trees which overshadow its bank. At the distance of a few miles, it nearly encircles the tumuli of some ancient Indian chieftains—the immense forests—the cultivated plains—the Blue Mountains which bound the horizon—Charlotteville—the university reared under the auspices of Mr. Jefferson. In the centre of the house is a hall, adorned with a museum, containing the bones of a mastodon, a collection of fossil shells, Indian trophies, and various curiosities. The drawing-room is an octagon, and has glass folding-doors, which lead on one side into the hall, on the other to the garden and shrubberies. The walls are covered with paintings. I was delighted to see the pictures of Locke, Bacon, Newton; of the discoverers of America —Columbus, Americus, Cabot, and Sir Walter Raleigh; also portraits of the Presidents of the United States. Besides these, there were several paintings of the Flemish and Italian schools.",250-1,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 265-7.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,37.5434,-77.4333,Richmond,"Richmond, Virginia",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Richmond, the capital of Virginia, is a place of great trade; the productions of a large tract of country are shipped to foreign ports. The houses in the lower part of the town, where business is transacted, are built very close together. Upon the hill is a fine open square, where the State House is situated, and a number of villas, surrounded by gardens and shrubberies. In one of these resides the Hon. Chief Judge Marshall, of the Supreme Court of the United States. He had requested that I would call upon him. I was happy to see a veteran of the Revolution, the friend of Washington...Quantities of fish are caught in the James River, and the planters who own large estates on the river rent out the privilege of fishing on the shore. The sum which is paid varies from two hundred to one thousand dollars a year. Great numbers of the vultur aura, or Turkey buzzard, attend to feast on the refuse of the fish, and, not being molested, become very bold. We took a ride on the beach, and observed one of them making a hearty meal on a fish; he allowed us to come close to him before he lazily took to flight.",265-7,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 281-2.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,40.3457,-74.657,Princeton,"Princeton, New Jersey",United States of America,Nothern America,North America,"Princeton, near the centre of the State, is situated on a rising ground. It has a College, one of the oldest institutions of the United States, in whose halls many eminent men have received their education. The faculty of the College consists of a President and three professors. The course of instruction embraces Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, the Languages, Ancient and Modern, Chemistry, Mineralogy, Political Economy, &c., &c. The College hall is built of stone, one hundred and seventy feet long, and four stories high. On the west is a building which contains the recitation rooms and a library. In front of the College is a fine campus ornamented with trees. The scenery of the country near Princeton is agreeable; at the distance of a mile is a range of basaltic hills; the valleys abound with wild roses; the woods in autumn are gay with the celastrus scandens, and the meadows are adorned with the œnothera, or evening primrose. The seminar of the Presbyterian church is situated at Princeton. It is in a flourishing condition, and has one hundred students. During the Revolution, Princeton was the scene of an engagement between the English and American forces. Three regiments of the former were attacked by the troops under General Washington. Having the pleasure to be acquainted with the President and Professors of the College, I passed some time at Princeton very agreeably.",281-2,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 323-4.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,45.4977,-73.5605,Montreal,"Montreal, Quebec",Canada,Nothern America,North America,"Montreal is a very flourishing city, and carries on an extensive commerce. Vessels of three hundred tons' burthen can ascend the St. Lawrence to this port, and the use of steamboats has much increased the business of the city. Most of the streets are narrow, and the houses are built on the old French plan, with their gable-ends to the streets, and there are iron shutters to the doors and windows which, at first sight, give the city rather a gloomy appearance. The Cathedral is a noble building, superior to any other I had seen on the American continent; it will contain twelve thousand people. From the mountain in the vicinity, from which the city derives its name, there is a fine view. The Valley of the St. Lawrence, for near eight hundred miles, is composed of tertiary formations; they are extremely flat, and, consequently, a very slight elevation commands a view over an extensive horizon.",323-4,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
John Finch,"Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires.","John Finch, Travels in the United States of America and Canada, Containing Some Account of their Scientific Institutions, and a Few Notices of the Geology and Mineralogy of those Countries. To Which is Added, an Essay on the Natural Boundaries of Empires (London: Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman, 1833), 324-6.",London,"Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, Green, and Longman",1833,Male,England,English,,,1833,,19th century,1830s,46.8178,-71.2216,Québec,"Québec City, Quebec",Canada,Nothern America,North America,"Embarking in a steam-boat, I landed in Quebec; and the sight of this magnificent capital of the British Possessions in North America recalled many of those historical recollections of which it is the subject. There are two towns, or, rather, cities—the Lower Town, near the water's edge, where the commercial business is chiefly transacted; and the Upper, which is surrounded by strong fortifications. The Citadel, Fort Diamond, is very strong from its natural situation, and the large sums which have been laid out upon its works. The British flag waves proudly from its summit. The Chateau of St. Louis is the Government House, where his Excellency Lord Aylmer, Governor-in-chief of the British North American Provinces, resides, whose liberal and enlightened policy probably gives as much satisfaction to the Canadians as any British Governor can possibly do. Paying no taxes and possessing an extensive and fertile country, the Canadians ought to be happy. I should be wanting in gratitude were I not to express my obligations to his lordship for his polite invitations while I was resident at Quebec. The views near Quebec are numerous. The Plains of Abraham, General Wolfe gained a victory and received his death-wound, and where his adversary, Montcalm, fell— Montmorenci, unsurpassed by any cataract in America in the height of its cascade—the wooded banks of the St. Lawrence—and the fortified city-walls—present a unique and sublime scene. The Literary and Historical Society devote much attention to exploring the history of the province, and have made large collections in the various departments of natural history. In winter, Quebec presents a scene of gaiety. Dinner-parties at the Chateau and at the houses of the merchants and civilians succeed each other rapidly. Three regiments are usually stationed at Quebec, and the Tandem Club muster twenty-five or thirty splendid equipages. To my friend W. Sheppard, Esq., of the Woodlands, and many other gentlemen, I was indebted for acts of hospitality which proved that the good old British feeling had lost none of its kindness by being transplanted to another hemisphere.",324-6,,,Library of Congress,https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/lhbtn/26802/26802.pdf,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
